Create 2020-09-13-belarus.md (#374)
deltachat/deltachat-pages: _posts/2020-09-13-belarus.md

---
title: Belarus
author: okdistribute
image: ../assets/blog/2020-07-scan-videochat-provider.jpg
---

> It's critical that ordinary people can get information out of their country without the government knowing who they are or what they're talking about. This free communication forms the basis for political freedom. This diversity of opinion and independent media are the bedrock of a free and fair society.

Reviewer: The basis of political freedom doesn't hinge on what a country even is. Nor does sending information out constitute diversity of opinion, but rather implicates freedom of communication.
Independent media is much less important than independent branches of government.

> From August 9 to August 12, Internet access in Belarus was severely restricted for a total of 61 hours, meaning only text messages and voice calls. Twitter and WhatsApp? broken. VPNs were blocked. The government blocked Apple Store and Google Play, so even if you knew an app that worked for you, you still couldn't download it. Effectively, all secure communications were blocked and rendered inaccessible, unless you were already prepared for this scenario.

Reviewer: And radio? Twitter and WhatsApp are always broken. The Apple and Google stores are not the only ways of downloading apps. "you" is not likely to be in Belarus.

> Meanwhile, the authoritarian government of Belarus continued to harass, abuse, detain, and arrest media, journalists, and protesters. 

Reviewer: "authoritarian" is a judgement call. The reader can make of what other information there is available, its own decisions. How many arrested, etc.?

Reviewer 2: If you only lived a month in Belarus, you would have know that "authoritarian" is NOT a judgement call.

> Meanwhile, the authoritarian government of Belarus continued to harass, abuse, detain, and arrest media, journalists, and protesters. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Meanwhile, the authoritarian government of Belarus continued to harass, abuse, detain, and arrest media, journalists, and protesters, when it should be focused on bloggers.
```

Author: I think this says that the authoritarian government of belarus should be focused on harassing bloggers?

Reviewer: Shouldn't we all?

> During the internet censorship in Belarus, we performed a variety of tests on Delta Chat. We found that some email services were still working, specifically Yandex and mail.ru

Reviewer: Who are "we"?

> Delta Chat messages sent from Yandex looked like any other ordinary and boring email. This made Delta.Chat very difficult to block.

Reviewer: "appeared to", they look different.

> As far as we know from other researchers in the area, local email providers didn't forward the mail outside the country, but for a group of testers (~10-15 logs) of our own servers as well as yandex and mail.ru, we were able to send email using STARTTLS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As far as we know from other researchers in the area, local email providers didn't forward mail outside the country, but for a group of testers (~10-15 logs) of our own servers as well as Yandex and mail.ru, we were able to send email using STARTTLS.
```

> Not only is it difficult to block, governments around the world actually don't really want to block email. Email is used for everything; from binine birthday cards, to finance, to life-saving information. That means there is collateral damage when the government blocks email. We've found that governments don't really do a great job of blocking decentralized protocols like Email, even for even a short amount of time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Not only is it difficult to block, governments around the world actually don't really want to block email, as it is used for everything; from benign birthday cards, to finance, to life-saving information. That means there is collateral damage when the government blocks its use. We've found that governments don't really do a great job of blocking decentralized protocols like email, even for even a short amount of time.
```

## Independence is crucial

> This type of innovation is not going to just happen by itself in the private sector. Email is the shining star example of a decentralized protocol that works even when everything else doesn't, precisely because it is an open, independent, and interoperable standard with no dependency on any one particular government, company, or business model.

Reviewer: What isn't going to happen? A lot came from the private sector already, including Delta Chat.
The backbone exchange is governmental, but not crucial, so not sure "dependency" is clear there.

> Funding from the Open Technology Fund enabled our team at Delta Chat to dive even deeper into Email to produce a chat application that really works in places like Belarus.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Funding from the Open Technology Fund enabled our team at Delta Chat to dive even deeper into email to produce a chat application that really works in places like Belarus.
```

> Delta Chat is open source software maintained by real people all over the world, who are funded through independent sources. It is THIS independence in particular that makes Delta Chat special. There's trust that it'll last beyond a particular political moment or a particular business model or economic cycle. In these scenarios, people are trusting their technology with their lives.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Delta Chat is libre software maintained by real people all over the world, who are funded through independent sources. It is THIS independence in particular that makes Delta Chat special. There's trust that it'll last beyond a particular political moment or a particular business model or economic cycle. In these scenarios, people are trusting their technology with their lives.
```
The OTF isn't independent. Could say it only takes money with no explicit political ties.

> In this moment, what we need are more decentralized protocols, like Email, and more independent applications, like delta.chat. We need more open standards built on research, not monopolies that are easily controlled by a single organization or government.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this moment, what we need are more decentralized protocols, like email, and more independent applications, like delta.chat. We need more open standards built on research, not monopolies easily controlled by a single organization or government.
```

"Yes, @delta_chat works in Belarus, e.g. you can use it with Yandex (needs enabled IMAP support)"
-> [source: Twitter](https://nitter.net/delta_chat/status/1293454056661356546)

> "yes, Delta Chat works in Belarusia even if Signal, Whatsapp etc. suffer blockings."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
"yes, Delta Chat works in Belarusia even if Signal, WhatsApp etc. are more broken than usual."
```

> -> [source: Twitter](https://nitter.net/delta_chat/status/1293456217248079872)

Reviewer: Need more independent applications on decentralized protocols you say?

Funding from the Open Technology Fund enabled our team at Delta Chat to dive even deeper into Email to produce a chat application that really works in places like Belarus.

Delta Chat is open source software maintained by real people all over the world, who are funded through independent sources. It is THIS independence in particular that makes Delta Chat special. There's trust that it'll last beyond a particular political moment or a particular business model or economic cycle. In these scenarios, people are trusting their technology with their lives.

In this moment, what we need are more decentralized protocols, like Email, and more independent applications, like delta.chat. We need more open standards built on research, not monopolies that are easily controlled by a single organization or government.

"Yes, @delta_chat works in Belarus, e.g. you can use it with Yandex (needs enabled IMAP support)"
https://nitter.net/delta_chat/status/1293454056661356546

"yes, Delta Chat works in Belarusia even if Signal, Whatsapp etc. suffer blockings."

> https://nitter.net/delta_chat/status/1293456217248079872

Reviewer 3: maybe screenshot or somekind of styled qoute element, but I wouldn't start to embed iframes from third parties just to make it look cooler.

---
title: Belarus
author: okdistribute
image: ../assets/blog/2020-09-by.jpg
---

It's critical that ordinary people can get information out of their country without the government knowing who they are or what they're talking about. This free communication forms the basis for political freedom. This diversity of opinion and independent media are the bedrock of a free and fair society.

<img src="../assets/blog/2020-09-by.jpg" width="400" style="float:right; clear:both; margin-left:1em; margin-bottom:1em;" alt="" />
From August 9 to August 12, Internet access in Belarus was severely restricted for a total of 61 hours,
meaning only text messages and voice calls.

> Twitter and WhatsApp? broken. VPNs were blocked.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Twitter and WhatsApp? Broken. VPNs were blocked.
```

> The government blocked Apple Store and Google Play, so even if you knew an app that worked for you, you still couldn't download it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The government blocked the equally authoritarian Apple and Google Play stores, to the effect of preventing unsuspecting users from downloading even apps that worked.
```
Play a smarter game, win better prices.

> Messengers and services which were not prepared to circumvent censorship, including WhatsApp, Twitter and VPNs were blocked.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Messengers and services which were not prepared to circumvent censorship, including WhatsApp, Twitter and VPNs, all of which got blocked.
```
